a while back our creative director the
brilliant and handsome Jesse Wood was
filming a rally that ran down the east
coast of the US Jesse said that when it
came time to drive south from New York
to Miami
everyone opted to drive around Virginia
he said very cryptically no one trash to
Virginia and everyone in the office was
like what why but when we turned around
he was gone
single white rose was left in his place
as clueless West Coasters we wanted to
know why bro jigna isn't a great state
to drive it and let me tell you what we
found out was way more interesting than
what we expected I'm super stoked to
announce that we have collaborative lean
customs to make our own enamel pins
you've probably seen these pins all over
Instagram or my backpack saying super
high quality it's on our store right now
so check it out for just $10 you can rep
a jacket I had backpack whatever just
like stick this thing on whatever you
got stick him into my skin now available
on our store hit the link get one for
yourself they're great guys thank you
for clicking on our video if you liked
it be sure to subscribe to our channel
hit that Bell so we can keep bringing
you new videos every week in this video
we're gonna talk about what makes
certain States worse to drive in than
others and how the government exploits
driving laws to increase state revenue
but before we get to that we're gonna
get into the state that's the most
unfair most despicable the most
infuriating state to drive in Virginia
driving in the state of Virginia can be
frustrating you'll encounter annoyances
that you would find in a lot of other
states but then we found a driving
statistic that blew us away
ready one out of every six drivers in
Virginia has a suspended license with
one in six million registered drivers in
the state that means nearly 1 million
people are driving illegally that is an
insane statistic think about it if the
same percentage applied to California
four point three million drivers would
be driving around with suspended
licenses frankly that would explain a
lot people kind of suck your driving
totally forgot dude I got pizza
I love pineapple no but that's a story
for another video yeah people probably
shouldn't drive with suspended licenses
but the reason they were suspended was
what really shocked us Virginia has a
law that says if you're going 20 over
the speed limit and get pinched you
don't get a speeding ticket you get a
reckless driving ticket reckless driving
is a misdemeanor which means it's on par
with a DUI which means that you have to
either spend a lot of time and money in
court fighting to get it reduced to a
simple speeding ticket or pay anywhere
from $350 to $2,500 more reckless
driving ticket when compared to the
average $250 penalty on a normal
speeding ticket that's quite a jump and
you might say that's easy Nolan just
don't speed and that's like that's a
good point
but it's not that simple plus let's be
honest here everyone likes to speed even
if you don't want to admit speed limits
in Virginia are notoriously low streets
that a driver could safely drive at 35
miles per hour are limited into 25
many highways are limited to an anaemic
infuriating 55 miles an hour which
compared to the rest of the u.s. is very
slow this makes it easy to speed without
even realizing it and creates
opportunities for speed traps Virginia
loves their speed traps
[Music]
if you're not familiar with the term a
speed trap is basically when a cop posts
up on a stretch of road or highway that
has a sudden drop in speed running it's
very easy to fall into these traps if
you're an out-of-state driver that maybe
didn't catch a road sign and let me be
clear the main objective of a speed trap
is to make money
they call it policing for profit and it
sucks no bones about it one of the most
egregious speed traps in the u.s. is a
stretch of the i29 v that runs through
Hopewell Virginia that earned the
nickname a million dollar mile it got
that nickname because it makes the
precinct almost two million dollars a
year on speeding tickets we are spending
that on there are 11 sheriff's deputies
that work 14-hour shifts handing out
tickets on the two-mile stretch of
highway it's only two miles long then it
is literally a million dollars a mile
and all that money goes straight back
into the town of Hopewell so they can
hire more deputies buy more radar guns
and by faster cruisers it's easy to try
and justify the laws by saying that it
cuts down on accidents and increases
safety but at what point does it go from
being a safety issue to an ethical issue
policing for profit is a pretty slimy
thing to do to taxpaying citizens and
when you look at the demographic it
affects the most it's even more
infuriating by and large the people most
affected are low income drivers you know
the people who definitely need a license
to get to work what will happen is a
driver misses a sign and gets pulled
over for doing twenty over they're given
a reckless driving ticket when they are
inevitably unable to pay for the cost of
hiring a lawyer and taking time out of
their workweek to go to court their
licenses are suspended they're in a
pickle okay they don't have enough money
to pay the court fees but they need
their car to get to work so that they
can make money to pay the court fees so
they end up driving despite their
suspended license and that's how you get
nearly 1 million people driving with a
suspended license in Virginia alone
what's even dumber is that it costs the
state a ton more money to enforce in
court and through the DMV it's not
really beneficial to anyone but the
precinct making that speed-trap money
a little misleading it does benefit
politicians as well but in a different
way one of the reasons these speed traps
continue to exist is because it lets
politicians campaign on the fact they
not only crack down on these malicious
speeders and made the road safer they
can say that they raised significant
revenue for the state it's a win-win for
politicians and it's been going on for a
long time years ago then governor of
Virginia Tim Kaine pushed legislation
through that tact an additional abuser
fee of $1,000 on two tickets for things
like speeding and failing to signal
that's right
it was met with so much hostility from
motorists we're paying over a thousand
dollars for not putting on there turn
signals that the courts deemed it
unconstitutional and it was appealed you
might say thankfully I don't live in
Virginia Nolan u star-lord action figure
that someone put in a microwave well
I've got some bad news for you okay
there are speed traps all over the
country no one is safe according to a
study done by the National motorists
Association anywhere between five to
seven billion dollars are made every
year from known speed traps around the
country which they define as arbitrarily
low speed limits with heavy traffic
enforcement designed to generate ticket
revenue the worst offending states up
there with Virginia Texas my home state
of California Ohio and Florida it's no
wonder why Florida it's no wonder why
Florida is full of speed traps the
popular vacation destination sees a
constant flow of out-of-state drivers
just right from the pick the Sunshine
State is home to two of the worst speed
traps in America or at least it was the
Highway Patrol in Waldo a town with a
population of 1,000 people wrote 12,000
speeding tickets in 2013 resulting in
four hundred thousand dollars in fines
for drivers but you can rest easy while
those seven persons force was disbanded
in 2014
yikes the other recognized speed trap is
in a town called Lottie Lottie latina
said Lottie where there is a sudden drop
in speed for school zone but there is no
vertical signage to let drivers
know that that's very shady sometimes we
don't even have the luxury of a human
pulling us over to issue a ticket
the city of Baltimore speed ticket
camera program was under fire earlier
this year for issuing tickets to cars
that were stopped at red lights and even
a car that was parked parked lucky for
us there are organizations trying to
shut down speed traps not only in
Virginia but all over the country one of
them is triple-a the roadside assistance
/ insurance / everything you would ever
want from a company company I said that
they've had some good success in
stopping speed traps recently they sent
two hundred thousand emails to members
with links to email Virginia lawmakers
to quote let them know policing for
profit shouldn't be happening and to
shut it down the bills are pushing would
limit the amount of money a jurisdiction
can keep from speed traps like the one
in Hopewell Virginia that's hopeful
that's good I like that
so is Virginia the worst state to drive
in the speed trap suck but it's probably
not the end of the world I'm not gonna
form an opinion based off one comment
Jesse made even if he is very handsome
and yes ladies he's single yeah it sucks
to get pulled over in Virginia but you
can't argue with the statistics and the
stats say that Virginia is actually one
of the safest states to drive it a study
was done using five factors fatalities
from drunk driving failure to obey
traffic laws speeding careless driving
and fatalities per 100 million miles
traveled Virginia scored fourth best out
of all 50 states so as much as we don't
like these laws maybe they're working I
mean you can't argue with the results
the state that scored the lowest on this
list you might ask that would be Montana
which has the reputation for being a
great state to drive in because they
don't really have speed limits so I'm
not really sure what to think if you
live in Virginia I would really like to
hear from you guys in the comments I
would like to hear some of your stories
maybe you got some tickets maybe you're
driving on a suspended license don't rat
on yourself hey we have a podcast - it's
called pass gas check that out and now
we have a notification finish setting up
iPad why would I want to do that during
wheel house what now no egg side eggs
for breakfast
scrambled a little bit of crushed pepper
on top this thing called breakfast
thanks for watching be kind see you next
time